# Docker Task Plugin

Execute a docker task. You can run applications in a container, packaged with all its dependencies and libraries from Clarive.

## What is Docker

Docker is a software technology providing containers. Docker provides an additional layer of abstraction and automation of operating-system-level virtualization on Windows and Linux.

## Requirements

This plugin requires Docker to be installed in the instance to work properly.

To install Docker you need to click [here](https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/linux/centos/) and follow the instructions.

## Installing

To install the plugin place the cla-docker-plugin folder inside `CLARIVE_BASE/plugins`
directory in Clarive's instance.

## Parameters

- **Server (variable name: server)** - Server that holds the remote file, server to connect to.
- **Use (use)** - We must select if we want to use Image commands, Containers commands or Generic commands
- **Task (task)** - Depending on the selection of the field above we will see some commands or others.
- **Option Task (options_task)** - This panel is to set the options of the selected command. If we select 'Write command in options task', we can write in the panel the command that we want with its options. We can find [here](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/) a list of docker commands and the options that we can put to each one of them.
- **Image Name (image_name)** - Name of the image we want to use. This field only appears if we have selected Image in the Use field. If the command can be executed with a list of images, we can put several images separate with a space.
- **Image Version (image_version)** - Version of the image we want to use. This is optional, this field only appears if we have selected Image in the Use field.
- **Container Name (container_name)** - Name of the container we want to use. This field only appears if we have selected Container in the Use field. If the command can be executed with a list of containers, we can put several containers separate with a space.
- **Command Parameters (command_parameters)** - This is optional, this field only appears when the command may need it.

**Only Clarive EE**

- **Errors and output** - These two fields are related to manage control errors. Options are:
   - **Fail and output error** - Search for configurated error pattern in script output. If found, an error message is displayed in monitor showing the match.
   - **Warn and output warn** - Search for configurated warning pattern in script output. If found, an error message is displayed in monitor showing the match.
   - **Custom** - In case combo box errors is set to custom a new form is showed to define the behavior with these fields:
   - **OK** - Range of return code values for the script to have succeeded. No message will be displayed in monitor.
   - **Warn** - Range of return code values to warn the user. A warn message will be displayed in monitor.
   - **Error** - Range of return code values for the script to have failed. An error message will be displayed in monitor.


## How to use

### In Clarive EE

Once the plugin is placed in its folder, you can find this service in the palette in the section of generic service and can be used like any other palette op.

Example:

      Server: docker_server
      Use: Image
      Task: run
      Option Task: --rm
      Image Name: hello-world
      Image Version: latest
      Command Parameters:
      Error: fail
      Output:
            Error:
            Warn:
            Ok: *Hello
            Capture:


### In Clarive SE

### Rulebook

If you want to use the plugin through the Rulebook, in any `do` block, use this ops as examples to configure the different parameters:

```yaml
rule: Docker demo
do:
   - docker_task:
       server: docker_server   # use the mid set to the resource you created
       use: "Generic"
       task: "info"           # IMPORTANT use the variable name from parameters list
       options_task: ["-f"]
```

```yaml
rule: yet another docker demo
do:
   - docker_task:
       server: docker_server   # use the mid set to the resource you created
       use: "Image"
       task: "create"
       image_name: "hello_world"
       image_version: "latest"
```

```yaml
rule: yet another docker demo
do:
   - docker_task:
       server: docker_server   # use the mid set to the resource you created
       use: "Container"
       task: "exec"
       container_name: "first_container"
       command_parameters: "ls"
       options_task: ["-d"]
```

## Outputs

## Success

This service will return the console output generated by the Docker command executed.

```yaml
do:
  - docker_task:
       server: docker_server   # use the mid set to the resource you created
       use: "Generic"
       task: "ps"
```

For this command the output will be similar to this one:

```yaml
CONTAINER ID ewgui34vrfw  
IMAGE   registry:2  
COMMAND  "/entrypoint.sh /etc/"    
CREATED  5 months ago    
STATUS  Up 3 hours    
PORTS  0.0.0.0:5000->5000/tcp   
NAMES  registry

```

## Possible configuration failures

### No Docker command

```yaml
OUTPUT: Redirecting to /bin/systemctl restart ntpd.service
docker: 'pserfre' is not a docker command.
See 'docker --help'.
```

Make sure that the command is available in Docker.

### Variable required

```yaml
Error in rulebook (compile): Required argument(s) missing for op "docker_task": "task"
```

Make sure you have all required variables defined.

### Not allowed variable

```yaml
Error in rulebook (compile): Argument `Task` not available for op "docker_task"
```

Make sure you are using the correct paramaters (make sure you are writing the variable names correctly).

## Tips

To get available commands in Docker, just run this command:

```yaml
do:
   - docker_task:
       server: generic_server-25   # use the mid set to the resource you created
       use: "Generic"
       task: "--help"
```

## More questions?

Feel free to join **[Clarive Community](https://community.clarive.com/)** to resolve any of your doubts.